And there we see the title and body values that we just submitted, we also see the created date fields.
However, there's one very important thing missing from this document, and that is the author of this
document.
Right.
We want to keep track of which user account created, which posts documents.
So we would want another field here named author, but we would not want to set its value to the user's
user name because in most applications, users can change their user name.
So we would want it to be something that never changes.
Well, remember that in Mongo DB, whenever you create a new document, it's going to generate an underscore
ID for you.
So for an example, if we look at our users collection, I have this document that represents my brat
account user.
And just like any other Mongo DB document, it has a unique ID value.
This is what we would want to store as the author value within a post document.
So how can we set this up?
Well, let's jump in to our post comptroller file.
So the post controller within the create function, when we say let lowercase post equal a new instance
of uppercase post, we're already passing in this submitted form data and we could just include a comma
here and then also pass in the current user ID from session data.
Now, if we're going to do that, we need to make sure that whenever a user logs in or registers that
we're actually storing that ID value in the current session data to make sure that we're doing that.
Let's jump in to our user controller file.
So in our controllers folder, user controller within the login function, if the login is successful,
we are setting up a bit of session data, as we can see here now, currently we're only assigning values
for Avatar and username, but we would also want to store their unique underscore ID.
So right after user data username, let's just add a comma and let's add a property named Underscore
ID and let's just set it to user data dot underscore ID.
Let's also go do the same thing within the register function in this same file.
So in user controller, here is our register function.
If a user successfully registers, we're going to set a bit of session data.
So at the end of this, let's just add on another property and say underscore ID equals user dot data
dot underscore ID.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now within our post controller we can leverage this underscore ID property that's going to exist
in session data.
So back in post controller, when we say let post equal a new instance of uppercase post right after
request body, just include a comma.
And the second argument, let's give it request session dot user dot underscore ID, let's save that.
And then finally we just need to go leverage it within our post model.
So in our post model, up at the very top within our constructor function right now we just have the
one parameter to receive the incoming request body lets out a second parameter to receive that incoming
user ID.
You could name this anything you want.
Let's just call it user ID within the constructor function.
Let's store it so that we can access it from our other methods so we can say this dot user ID equals
user ID, OK?
And then within our cleanup function, within this area where we say get rid of any bogus properties,
we've already added on a property of created date.
I'm just treating this as an area where I can add on additional properties that weren't necessarily
submitted by the user.
So right after created date, let's just say comma and let's add a property named author and let's give
it a value of this dot user ID.
However, within Mongo DB, it's a best practice to not just store this as a simple string of text,
but to actually store it as an object ID object type.
Essentially Mongu DB has a special way of treating ID values and to honor that, here's what we can
do up at the very top of this file.
Right after line number one, let's add a new line and say const object ID and let's just set this to
equal and then let's require in the Mongu DB package.
But we don't need the entire package here.
We're just interested in a certain constructor function.
So at the end here we can just say dot object.
I said essentially this is a tool from within the Mongo de.
Package and we can pass it a simple string of text and it will return that as a special object ID object
type.
So now we just need to go leverage this.
So back down here where we are setting author to this user ID instead, what we would want to do, let's
delete that and say author should equal.
Let's call the object I.D. tool and give it this dot user ID.
So that will return an ID object that Mongo DB is more than happy with.
Lets go ahead and save this and test it out.
Now back in the browser we are going to want to sign out and then sign back in before trying this.
That way our server has a chance to regenerate a new session for us using that new piece of session
data that we are storing.
Right.
The ID of the current user.
So let's log back in.
OK, and then I want to create a post, let's say my second post for the content.
This is a wonderful post.
Go ahead and submit that.
OK, now let's check our database, so within my database, I'm interested in the Post's collection.
So it now has two documents, here is my second post and perfect, we see it has a field named author,
which is a Mongo DB Object ID type, and this value perfectly matches the Brad user accounts ID perfect.
Now we have a way of keeping track which user account created which post.
While we're at it, let's go ahead and delete the post document that does not have an author field.
So I'm just going to click the trashcans symbol on that click delete.
Cool, that's going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson.
We are going to work on the ability to view a post within our Web app instead of just this private Mongo
DB database screen.
Right.
We would want each post to have its own unique.
You are well, this should be a lot of fun to set up.
So let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.